Welcome to JW Broadcasting. This month we look to fortify our desire for
spiritual food from Jehovah. Here are the highlights of what's ahead. What tools
do we have to discover spiritual treasures and how can we use them effectively?
We'll find the answers in this how-to video. Our congregations are places of
theocratic instruction where qualified men are needed to serve and
shepherd. How does this brother learn what it really means to reach out? And this
touching music video will highlight the joys experienced at the 2014
international conventions. But it will also cause us to look forward to the
spiritual feast at our next convention which will be here before we know it.
This is the December edition of JW Broadcasting. Theocratic schools are
equipping more and more of our brothers and sisters with a strong spiritual
foundation. After graduation they're able to fill needed assignments in the
organization. For example the school for Kingdom evangelizers is training
ones who make themselves available to serve where the harvest is great often
within their own branch territory. That's the situation in the Democratic
Republic of Congo where over one million people attended last year's
memorial. That's more than five times the number of publishers because of this
tremendous need in the field and the lack of other facilities to conduct
theocratic schools and house the students. An exception was made to have a
dedicated school facility. Now things are different after a busy
renovation and an exciting dedication program. In the very heart of Africa lies
the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo. Jehovah's
creation brings praise to him. However the greatest shout-out to praise to
Jehovah comes from the more than 200,000 Jehovah's Witnesses who are
zealously preaching and teaching the good news of the Kingdom. In our branch
territory over 40,000 were baptized in the last three years. This means the
formation of many new congregations. This accelerated growth produces a need
for more qualified brothers and sisters. We needed a school facility that could
satisfy this growing need. Due to economic reasons and a great number of
potential students in the Congo the governing body made a loving exception and
decided that we could have a school for Kingdom of Lunch Lodge with two
classrooms. We were so happy when we received the approval to go ahead and
renovate some buildings located near to Bethel. International and local
volunteers went very hard to renovate the buildings into a theocratic school
complex that would bring praise to Jehovah God. This school's complex is unique
because it's an oasis of order and cleanliness in an overcrowded city. One day a
passerby got a glimpse of the school because the gates were left open. He was so
impressed with the well-maintained buildings, the beautiful garden setting and the
sign Bible school's complex. He came right in and asked if he could enroll in
the school. On January the 17th, 2015, Brother Garrett Lodge of the
governing body dedicated the complex to Jehovah with the theme growth praises
Jehovah. I would never have thought this could happen 15 years ago that a
member of the governing body would come to dedicate this building that has been
used for many things but now the pinnacle of school. We are very happy Jehovah is
really the creator. 51 students were invited from all over Congo for the first and
second classes of the school for Kingdom Evangelises. For many of the students it
is the first time to see a theocratic school facility of Bethel for that
matter. I couldn't believe my eyes when Jehovah granted me one of the
desires of my heart to attend the school for Kingdom Evangelises. In Isaiah 54
13 the Bible says every son will be taught by Jehovah. I felt very privileged to
have been chosen by the branch committee to learn more about Jehovah and his
organization. The students will never forget that they enjoyed three good
mules served to them graciously each day, that their clothes were washed and
well pressed, that they enjoyed a modern air-conditioned classroom in the
tropics with computers and printers freely available for their use, also that
they slept in safety at night in clean rooms. Do you have the spirit of an
evangeliser? We believe that you do have it. In general, secular school education
can make people more proud. This divine education helps the students to be more
humble and thus more useful in Jehovah's hands. I understand Bethel now how much
Jehovah appreciates humble people but he opposes the proud. I am very small at
the bottom of dust. So there is no need for me to think I am better than someone else.
The training helped me to look at myself honestly. I discovered parts of my
personality I needed to improve. I have the privilege to take care of this
school complex. I saw the quality of divine education with my own eyes. Now I am
motivated to try even harder to make the experience pleasant for any future
students and thus bring praise to Jehovah. It helped me to cherish my place in
Jehovah's organization to love Jehovah and my brothers and sisters even more.
The school helps the students not just to help new ones but also to work along
with the other publishers so they also can progress and stabilize in the faith.
I make a new foot to show the training with others in the congregation. I like
to encourage the young one to take up the pioneer service. With the training I
received I found it easier to approach anyone. I'm conducting several
Bible studies and some of them are attending meetings. The divine education that
I received helped me to have a clearer understanding of the truth. I am also
much more effective in my ministry.
Deborah and Kathy were assigned to a distant isolated territory 1,500
kilometers up the River Congo in northern Congo. In the congregation the
brothers was surprised because they know usually the school we sent out
brothers but it was two sisters but now they see that we help the congregation.
Yes, we were very happy when our second overseer informed us that two
sisters were coming to our congregation. We were very happy. They encourage
other sisters in the congregation. Also, they add enthusiasm to the
congregation especially in the ministry. The presence of these
graduates in the various congregations has helped to improve the quality of
teaching and energize the preaching activity. The benefits reached the far
corners of Congo so that a great shot of praise is given to your hope.
Water blessing from Jehovah every year more than 200
brothers and sisters can receive divine education from Jehovah and then
express this over the far reaching territory of the Congo branch.
How encouraging it is to see the school for kingdom evangelizers in Congo is now
able to move forward with Jehovah's blessing but you and I can benefit from
deep spiritual study even if we're not enrolled in a special school.
That's because we all have something special that Jehovah gives to us on a
regular basis. Now let's discuss what that is and how we can use it.
Did you notice the nutritious meals that were provided for the students
similar to the meals served at Bethel? In order to feed our hard working
Bethel families throughout the world thousands of meals are prepared each day.
Needless to say much work goes into this food preparation but this isn't the
only food being prepared at Bethel. There is a banquet of rich
dishes and fine wine that we call spiritual food.
The real source of such food is Jehovah because it is based solidly on his
inspired word. But how do we show our appreciation for this food?
Let's find out. Let's open our Bibles now to Proverbs chapter 2 and we're going
to read verses 1 through 4. Proverbs 2, 1 through 4.
My son, if you accept my sayings and treasure up my commandments
by making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to discernment.
Moreover, if you call out for understanding and raise your voice for discernment,
if you keep seeking for it as for silver and you keep searching for it as for hidden
treasures, notice that Jehovah does not force feed us spiritual food.
But he appeals to our free will.
If we showed Jehovah we are eager to receive his teachings,
if we put forth the effort, if we keep seeking and searching,
consider the reward we receive the key to unlock the hidden treasures and
find the knowledge of God. But if we're to find the knowledge of
God and to grow spiritually and become mature Christians,
we must know how to study. Therefore, in this program,
we're going to share five ways to help us get the most out of our study.
Now, the first point is in verse 1. Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 1.
My son, if you accept my sayings. Now, the majority of our viewers agree with us when we say that
the Bible is no ordinary book. We accept it as it is, the Word of God.
Now, we may say we accept the Bible's teachings, but does our life show that we accept it?
Do we allow it to shape and mold our lives? Much depends on our attitude.
Our attitude toward accepting and applying the Word of God is like a valve.
It can either impede or increase the flow of Holy Spirit.
During your study periods, open that valve wide, allow the Bible into your life.
Then God's Word can affect you profoundly. You will see changes in your life that only the
power of the Bible truth can bring about. Think about how accepting Jehovah's ways is
saving you from a bad course as stated at Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 11 and 12.
Let's illustrate how this works when we do our Bible reading.
Open your Bible to Deuteronomy chapter 17 and verse 16.
Now, we're going to use this verse to make all five points come alive.
Now, try to picture yourself in this verse. You are a king over the nation of Israel.
You are surrounded by powerful nations. Let's read the verse, verse 16, Deuteronomy 17.
However, he, now that's you, should not acquire many horses for himself or make the people go
back to Egypt in order to obtain more horses. Few horses for the king. That means no Calvary
in the battlefield to a war strategist that might have sounded like terrible advice. Horses
were mighty weapons of war. This is where thinking ability comes in.
How will obeying this command save the nation from a bad course? Would you accept this as the word
of God? You would if you applied our second point as mentioned in Proverbs chapter 2 1 B.
Now, it says Proverbs chapter 2 1 B and treasure up my commandments. Now millions believe
the Bible is God's word, but they don't treasure it. What makes us different? We realize that every
word from Jehovah is of value. We see the positive results when we apply what we learn.
As Proverbs chapter 2 and verse 10 states,
when wisdom enters your heart and knowledge becomes pleasant to your soul, wisdom enters our
heart and motivates us when you treasure God's precious sayings and experience the beneficial effect
they have on you personally. Then you become more convinced of the rightness of Jehovah's way of
doing things. His sayings really are something to treasure. So what treasure can we glean from
Deuteronomy 1716? No horses, no Calvary? When they obeyed that command, Israel had no national chariot
force. But what did they have? They had victory after victory. They defeated 31 Canaanite nations
greater than them. They took control of the promised land. They received the fulfillment of God's
promises without a chariot force. Do you see the treasure in that? The third point we want to discuss
is in verse 2 which says, by making your ear attentive to wisdom, we want to make our ear
attentive to wisdom. How do we do that? After reading God's word, listen. Listen by looking for life
application principles. Faith involves more than just reading a statement. It will result in action.
So as you meditate on God's word, try to single out specific lessons and ask yourself, how can I apply
this? Let's go back to our example of Deuteronomy 1716. Solomon read Deuteronomy 1716, but did he really
listen? No, he multiplied horses. In fact, he built whole cities to house and support his chariot
forces. Now what about us? How are we doing? Are we just reading or are we listening? In other words,
we may ask ourselves, what action in my life would indicate to Jehovah that I am trusting him more
fully? Is my ear attentive? Solomon was one of the wisest men who ever lived. He wrote the words
we've been discussing in Proverbs chapter 2. So why didn't he apply them? Why didn't he make his
ear attentive to Jehovah's directive in Deuteronomy? Why did he accumulate horses? Because he did not
apply .4. You recall Proverbs chapter 2, 2b, it says, and inclining your heart to discernment.
Later in life, the problem was not Solomon's reading ability. He was a smart man, but his heart
deep down, it seems he thought his way was better as we make our ear attentive. We will find
things we need to change. Studying with the goal of making personal application will challenge us
to our core. When we discover we are not doing things Jehovah's way, will our heart move us to
discern Jehovah's will? Before starting each study session, we must ask him to incline our heart
to see what is needed to give us the strength to do things his way. For example, ask yourself,
if I had been Solomon, would I have acted in harmony with what is stated at Deuteronomy 1716?
If you are not inclined to agree, would your heart or your feelings move you to discern if there
was a deeper reason for Jehovah to set this regulation? Search your heart now. Do you honestly believe
Jehovah would require something that would put his people in danger? Will you incline your heart to
seek the lesson behind his requirement? For example, let's go back to the prohibition at Deuteronomy 1716.
Think of David Solomon's father when facing an ammonite and Syrian army of 32,000 chariots.
Did it make any sense for David not to have a cavalry of his own? Imagine now that you are a
foot soldier in the Israelite army. All you have is a sword and a shield. Would you have questioned
the king's decision? Would you discern that this really was best for the nation? Yes, because you
accepted God's word. You treasured it up. You made your ear attentive. You incline your heart. You
follow through. That's why you're there. Imagine, as you draw up in the battle formation against such a
formidable enemy. You see the horses, nostrils flaring. You can taste the dust kicked up by the 32,000
chariots. You hear the war cry of these mighty warriors. How do you feel? Nervous?
The account recorded at 1 Chronicles 19 says that against all odds, the enemies turned around
and fled. The lesson, despite any human tendency to doubt or rationalize, you clearly see that
following Jehovah's way is always the best, the surest way for our protection and prosperity.
When we experience Jehovah's saving hand in our lives and we see how he wants to benefit us,
we're hooked. Our hearts are touched and we want more of that in our lives. We've seen the value
of these precious truths that makes us look forward to our study. We can't wait to keep digging.
Let's read verse 4 and highlight our fifth point. If you keep seeking for it as for silver and
you keep searching for it as for hidden treasures. When we seek and search for more details,
we find the key to unlock hidden treasures. For example, let us seek more details on Deuteronomy 1716.
Was there any practical reason for the Israelites not to employ horses in battle?
Pull out our tools, look at our map and the good land brochure. Israel's largely a hilly country.
A cavalry is most effective in flat, open low planes, not on hills and mountains.
Might that fact have led some to draw the wrong conclusions about Jehovah's ability to save
his people? Digging deeper, using our research publications gives us more details.
Insight volume 1 under the heading chariot reveals that the enemies of Jehovah try to lure his
people to fight on flat land. As first kings chapter 20 makes clear, they thought Jehovah's a God
of mountains. Really, Jehovah can only fight in the mountains? The great defeat, those enemies
suffered proved that are Almighty God is also a God of planes. What was the main reason for victory
in the battle? Horses and cavalry, the terrain or Jehovah? The answer is obvious.
Because of your seeking and searching, you have found a treasure most of the world doesn't even know
exists. You now understand what Proverbs 25 calls the fear of Jehovah. At the conclusion of a study
session, thank Jehovah for the treasure of his word. Like a child eager to relate every detail to
a parent, tell Jehovah what you learn from your Bible study. Ask him to help you apply his teachings
in your life. Use our five points from Proverbs 2 to help build an appetite for the banquet of
rich dishes and fine wine our Father has lovingly provided. Let's review one. First, we want to
accept God's word. Adjust the valve of our attitude and allow Jehovah's precious thoughts to mold
and shape our life. Two, we treasure up Jehovah's sayings. We do this when we acknowledge the beneficial
effect God sayings have on us personally. Three, we discuss the importance of making our year
attentive. This happens when we sing aloud specific lessons and act to apply them in our life.
Our fourth point, emphasize the need to incline our hearts toward discernment. We do this
by begging Jehovah to give us the strength to do things his way and to live in a way
that makes his heart rejoice. Our fifth point encouraged us to keep seeking and searching by
digging deeper using our research publications to glean even more details. These are just a few
ways to enhance our appreciation for spiritual food. Now is the time to deepen our knowledge and
fortify our faith. May we heed Jesus' counsel to work for the food that is spiritual food that remains
forever lasting life. It's vital that each of us know how to find spiritual food, whether it's
through a library of books, a computer, or a handheld device. But the availability of spiritual food
is not enough. We must also learn how to make effective use of the tools we have. Pay close
attention and be reminded of how three of our research tools can be used when we need to find spiritual
treasures. As Jehovah's people, we often find ourselves in situations that may require us to do
research. For example, isn't that a lovely thought? But personally, I pray to the saints.
They really do help me. What do you think about praying to the saints?
That's a really interesting question. I know we have some information on that.
Perhaps I could come back in a couple of days and we could discuss that together.
Open up your textbooks, turn to page 26. And we all know that evolution is a trusted scientific theory.
And it is well supported by the fossil records.
How to identify the true religion? Where do I start?
At times like these, what are some basic research techniques that can help us?
Let's take a look at our available research tools.
Watchtower Library. Research Guide and Watchtower Online Library.
And the JW Library app. Each of these has unique features that can help us in a variety of ways.
The Watchtower Library program is very easy to use. Simply type in a word in the search field.
And you will see a vast amount of references listed for that subject.
If you wish to see the very latest information, simply click on the Year tab.
Or for easier viewing, you can categorize all the references by clicking on the category tab at the bottom.
A nice feature of this tool is that you don't need an internet connection to access it.
Have you had a chance to use our research guide?
While this tool doesn't list every subject that has been discussed in our publications,
the topics that are listed contain the most current references.
Each topic links you directly to the appropriate article on the Watchtower Online Library.
If you wanted to do an additional search using Watchtower Online Library,
simply click on the Watchtower symbol in the upper left hand corner and enter your desired topic.
A great mobile research tool is our JW Library app.
Under the Publications tab, it has a growing number of publications and videos to choose from.
Each of these can be downloaded to your mobile device for quick offline access.
But suppose you're thinking of a specific scripture and can't remember the exact verse.
No problem. The JW Library app can help again. Navigate to the search icon shown on the homepage
and type in a keyword. To refine the search, multiple keywords can be entered.
Yes, young and old can take advantage of these excellent research tools to help find satisfying
answers. Improving our ability to do research strengthens our relationship with Jehovah,
so that we may be fully competent, completely equipped for every good work.
So let's make good use of our research tools.
Did you see something that could help you in your spiritual studies?
As an example, why not use the research guide in the Watchtower Online Library for an answer
to your question? As evidence of Jehovah's love, and ever increasing number of our brothers
have these study tools in their own language, Watchtower Library on CD-ROM was first released
back in 1994, and it can be requested today in over 55 languages. Watchtower Online Library
has been on the internet since 2012 and has grown to over 200 languages.
And JW Library, which was first announced for English at the 2013 annual meeting,
contains printed publications in more than 150 languages and audio video programs in over 590.
Earlier, we discussed how to follow the steps in Proverbs chapter 2 to find the knowledge of God
so beneficial to us. The anointed brothers who make up the faithful and discrete slave
said a wonderful example of how to personally search through God's Word.
In this Bethel morning worship, Brother David Spleen shares lessons that we can learn and apply
for a study of the lives of Isaac and Rebecca. Let's open our Bibles and read the text directly
from the Bible because there's more to it. Genesis 24 and verse 67. And as we read this,
what we're looking for is a clue into Isaac's personality. Let's see what we can find out about Isaac
from verse 67. It says after that, Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah, his mother,
thus he took Rebecca as his wife, and he fell in love with her, and Isaac found comfort
after the loss of his mother. So what clue do we have into Isaac's personality? He's obviously a man
who has feelings. This is a man of sentiment. Now how long had Sarah been dead when Isaac got married?
Do the math. Sarah was 90 when Isaac was born. She was 127 when she died. So how old was Isaac when
Sarah died? 37. Now he's 40. Three years have passed, and his sorrow is so great that the Bible
makes special mention of the fact that he found comfort over the death of his mother. So Sarah's
death obviously hit Isaac hard. And then it says that he fell in love with his wife. Now how would
the writer of Genesis know all this? Obviously Isaac shared his feelings unlike some men. Now from what
we know of Rebecca, we can easily understand why Isaac would fall in love with her. Brother
Verges referred briefly to the situation that brought them together. Remember the oldest servant
of Abraham? They think it was Ellie Yeezer, and for simplicity we'll call him Ellie Yeezer.
Abraham asks Ellie Yeezer to go to the city of Nehor to pick out a wife for Isaac. Now
Ellie Yeezer doesn't lean on his own discernment, his own judgment. He prays to Jehovah and he asks
Jehovah for help. And he says now the woman who offers not only to give me a drink, but who is
willing to water my ten camels, let her be the one whom you have chosen for Isaac. And so he makes
the trip to the city of Nehor. Enter Rebecca. She has a water jar on her shoulder. And she not only
offers to give Ellie Yeezer a drink, but she also offers to water his ten camels. Now think about
what's involved. Let's turn to Genesis 24 and read verses 19 and 20. Genesis 24, 19 and 20.
When she finished giving him a drink, she said, I will also draw water for your camels until they
are done drinking. So she quickly emptied her jar into the drinking trough and ran again and
again to the well to draw water. And she kept drawing water for all his camels. Easy to read.
Not so easy to do. Now researchers tell us that a camel can drink 25 gallons of water.
Now let's be careful with our figures here. Does that mean that Rebecca drew 25 times 10 or
250 gallons for those camels? Not necessarily. A camel has good mileage. You can get 40 or 50 miles
of the gallon from a camel. And so it's possible that the camels made that 500 mile journey on
five or six gallons of water. But even if that was so, 50 or 60 gallons is still a lot of water.
Now Al-Eezer had men with him. And as she could have said, well, I'll draw water for you,
and your men can help themselves to the water after all their servants, I'm not. But she didn't.
So what do we learn about her? She was a hard worker. Now you and I would have been ready for a nap
after drawing all that water. But now she's a hospitable woman. She offers straw for the camels
and a place for the men to spend the night. So what do we learn about her? We learn that she is
a hard worker and she is warm and hospitable. What do we learn about Isaac? He's a warm man of
sentiment. What about the camels? Well, when we used to look for types and anti-types,
we thought that the 10 camels pictured the perfect word of God and just as the camels brought
Rebecca to Isaac, so the word of God brings the bride to Christ. A couple of problems with that.
First of all, the camel is an unclean animal. And you wouldn't think that Jehovah would select
an unclean animal to picture his perfect word. And then if the camels picture the perfect word of
God, you'd think that it would be the camels that would bring water to Rebecca and not the other
way around. So it seems that the camels are just camels. Well, the day after Ali's are
arrives, he asks Rebecca if she's willing to return to Bershiba. Now, as we mentioned, that's a
500 mile journey on a camel. How long would it take? These are not your speedy roadster camels.
There are speedy camels that can do about 100 miles a day, but these would be the slow,
burden-bearing Arabian camels, and they can do about 25 miles a day. So you're looking at a 20-day
journey on a camel. How would you like to meet your fiancée for the first time
after you traveled 20 days on a camel? Well, Rebecca was no pushover. She was a strong woman.
When Esau and Jacob were born, Jehovah had said that the older Esau was going to serve
the younger Jacob. But remember what happened when Isaac thought he was about to die? He wanted to
bless the older Esau. And Rebecca took action so that Jacob got the blessing. Now whether she was
fully aware of it or not, that fit into Jehovah's purpose. So we're thinking of warm
sentimental Isaac and a strong, hard-working, smart, hospitable woman. What a wonderful
combination that made. And it makes us think of how many Rebecca's we have in the organization today.
Some of them were working in construction. Others are working in Bethel. Others in the field.
They're willing to learn new languages and to serve with a need is great. They're hard workers.
They're willing to do whatever is required and even go beyond the call of duty. They're hospitable,
smart, attractive. Our sisters make an amazing contribution to Bethel. What would we do without them?
By keeping our ear attentive to wisdom and account like that of Isaac and Rebecca,
it becomes so much more than a biblical history lesson. As you listen to Brother
explain, did you picture real people like us? Did you see their godly qualities that we can
imitate like Rebecca's hospitality? Isaac and Rebecca face trials similar to ones you may be
facing now. The death of a loved one or challenging assignment far from home. Meditating on their
reliance on Jehovah can give us the confidence we need to keep trusting in God.
Our study of spiritual truths is also life-saving. It sets us free from false religion and protects
us from bad influences. Our team met Brother Boniface Kwamla in the Volta region of Ghana. From
infancy, he was surrounded by superstitious beliefs and practices. What did he find that
transformed his life and caused him to take a courageous stand? At a tender age, I have a troubled
mind as to how I would be pleasing to God and also at the same time be pleasing in the rest of the
voodoo. Two of my siblings died before I was born. So my mother or seeking protection
or through her pregnancy with me, my mother was made to believe that when she goes to the
voodoo shrine regularly, she will be protected from the witches. This means she has to walk
about four miles to the shrine regularly bare-footed. After my bed, I was sent to the voodoo shrine to
be protected from the attack of the witches. I was kept there. I got baptized into the Catholic
church. There we were taught that those who worship idols, the voodoos, will be bent
in an everlasting hellfire. I was terrified. I knew that God's name is Jehovah.
I had a name Jehovah's Witnesses and it appealed to me so it kept on ringing in my ears,
Jehovah's Witnesses, Jehovah's Witnesses. When the relatives were discussing religion and the
scholars, but I said, if I join any church at all, it will be Jehovah's Witnesses. One day,
I asked my father, would the priest be angry if he knows that we, after going for the communion,
still going to the shrine. My father came back with the news that the priest said,
I can still go ahead being an idol worshiper and at the same time being a Catholic.
I became disturbed. I became confused. I came across Jehovah's Witnesses when I was of age and left
the village. I bombarded them with questions. I became very furious. When they told me,
Easter, Christmas, New Year celebration, even the cross we used were of pagan origin. So I demanded
a book. I read that book before they break. So that night, in my heart, I broke away from the voodoo
and also from the Catholic religion. I was afraid to confront my father over the issue. In our culture,
it's not easy for a young man to take such a crucial decision. Before I could be aware,
there was the news in the village that now don't go has joined the new religion. So anytime I go
home, relatives will knock on my door. I don't do advise me to retain my decision.
My worry was how to inform my father. And one day, my father invited me and then inquire of me
of what was really happening. And it became a very strong confrontation. I told him, I was
worshiped Jehovah. Jehovah is the only God I worshiped. So he fled up, left me and then went into
this room. So I also entered my room and started singing. Once with confusion, our side has
waived, drinking the Catholic religion distilled. I was singing so vigorously. I see somebody who has
been liberated because initially I was in prison. But now I am a freed man. So since then,
I've been saving Jehovah. The fear of man has been overcome. I am no longer a captive of the fear
of death or even the dead. I no longer engage myself in any practices that are contrary to Bible
standards. I feel liberated. It makes me happy when I see my children also serving the only true God
Jehovah. And now I live a very happy, family life. Brother Kwomla had a desire to know God,
but as we saw, something was missing without help. How could he incline his heart to discernment?
Only when he received the truth book, as a young man, did he have spiritual food to study God's
work? At last, he was able to understand God's sayings instead of false religions. He was
baptized in 1976. As a pioneer and elder, brother Kwomla directs people to the spiritual
instruction we receive in the congregation. He is like many of our dear brothers who are
desires of a fine work and reach out as ministerial servants and shepherds. But why do some who have
the circumstances to serve hold back? Could it be that other matters take a higher priority?
Or do you feel unsure how you can qualify? No matter what the reason, you can make changes.
Notice how this brother learns what it really means to reach out and the spiritual benefits
it brings. They say that a healthy mind lives in a healthy body
and I take good care of mine, not a day without exercising.
And I do my best to stick to a spiritual routine too.
Oh no, the meeting for field service. I've got to get going. By the way, my name is Ryan.
I'm glad I could work with Andrew this morning. He's always so well prepared for the ministry.
You see, I'm not so good at starting conversations with people I don't know.
And then it's great to have Andrew on your team. He's really good at that.
And once we're done here, I'm off into the woods for a long hike. It's like the only
place I can recharge my batteries. Andrew suggests that we first do some of my return visits.
Well, I'm afraid I don't have any. Sorry Andrew, maybe next weekend. I like our meetings,
but I wish I'd prepared better. Now the study is over. And again, I couldn't comment.
Man, I need to be at the cinema in 10 minutes. Oh yeah, thanks, Edgar. My field service report.
My group over there always has to remind me how come I always forget?
Andrew and I are good friends. To be honest, he seems to be the only friend I've got in our
congregation. Last week, he was appointed as a ministerial servant. I'm not surprised at all.
He is a great example, especially for me. I wonder why I haven't qualified to be a ministerial servant.
Wow, Andrew's always busy for the congregation, helping the friends, taking care of our older
brothers and sisters. He really cares for them. How come I never think of that? That evening,
Edgar and Martin, the assistant group overseer, came over. They've noticed how hard I train to
stay in good shape physically, but am I working as hard to be in good shape spiritually?
Martin reminded me of 1 Timothy 3-1. This statement is trustworthy. If a man is reaching out to be
an overseer, he is desirous of a fine work. This principle applies to me since an overseer qualifies
first as a ministerial servant. The brothers ask me, how is the apostle Paul an example to someone
whose desirous of a fine work? Paul strengthens the friends by giving encouraging talks.
He showed personal interest for the elderly, for the fatherless boys, and had a good share in
the ministry. The brothers were right. Having a good share in the ministry gives so much happiness.
Edgar commended me for how I handled that last return visit.
Who knows, maybe I will conduct Bible studies soon. I didn't realise that we had so many
nice friends in our congregation. Perhaps I just didn't give them a chance in the past.
I guess I had a spiritual routine before, but I was too distracted by what I wanted to do,
but there is so much I can do for others. With better preparation, I feel more comfortable giving
comments, and I was able to stand in for a part during the midweek meeting. Martin gave me some
greater vice afterwards. The apostle Paul worked hard, gave to others, and reached out.
Following his example gives me so much joy in life. Now I realise what it really means to reach out.
It's all about being a spiritual man.
What did Ryan learn about reaching out? He saw that it involves building up his own spirituality,
and then looking for opportunities to give of himself to serve those in the congregation.
If you see the potential in your life to reach out, pray to Jehovah, seek advice from the elders,
and start making changes. Make it the subject of your next personal study project,
as you treasure up God's commandments. When you reach out, you'll find the happiness that Jesus
says comes from giving. When we look around our congregation, we're sure to find brothers and
sisters young and old who can use our help in a spiritual or a practical way. Sometimes when we
look, we're amazed at what some with seemingly impossible limitations are already doing for themselves
with the help of God's Spirit. Imagine wanting to study the Bible and preach the good news
in spite of a severe handicap. We met a sister who, from birth, faced that very challenge.
I'm Sabine Hernandez, and I'm from Panama. I have the honor of participating in theocratic
activities. I just have to do it a little differently, but I enjoy it just the same.
Well, I was born handicapped. It was a C-section birth with a lot of complications.
So I can't use my hands and feet as fully as most people can. I can't walk.
We went to the doctors every week, and I would miss work just to take her.
They helped her with her therapy, and I had to do a lot of things for her at home.
The doctors wanted to keep me for some medical experiments, but my mom flat out refused to accept
that idea. But thankfully, my mind is normal. Although some of my friends tell me I have a few
screws loose, but I don't think so. As far as growing up in the neighborhood in Turillo,
everything was normal. I used to fight with my brothers all the time, and I played with all the
kids in the neighborhood. Then one day, the brothers came preaching door to door.
So we started the study, and things progressed. I used to ask myself,
how am I going to teach her to handle the Bible if she can't use her hands?
About what I didn't know was how well she could use her tongue. I would say to scripture,
and she would look it up with her tongue. Many times she would find it before I did.
It all happened gradually, but I knew that what I was learning was very valuable. I can't say it was
because of one particular scripture or anything like that. It was really just getting to know the
very personality of Jehovah and the way the brothers and sisters treated me. In order to go to the
kingdom hall or to the assemblies, the brothers have to carry me. And of course, as I kept growing,
I got heavier and heavier. So that was an easy, you know. When I got baptized, I had affection for
Jehovah, but as I kept growing spiritually and getting to know him better, I began to really
treasure the privilege of serving him. The idea of talking to others made me feel terrified,
scared to death, and all panicky. But all the encouragement I got from the brothers,
friends, traveling overseers, and all the assistants my mom has given me were a big help.
Now I really love preaching door to door. I have a little list of phone numbers that I've
put together from homes in our congregation's territory. The eagle that know me have come up to me
and said, I got a phone call from your daughter the other day. And I was like, what? My daughter?
The sisters are so kind and they support me by bringing some of their Bible studies to my house
so that I can share with them in the study. What I can't do with my hands, I can do almost
almost anything with my tongue. I type on the computer with a pencil or pen. And then when it's ready,
I print it, fold it, and put it into an envelope. Then I take it to sisters at the kingdom hall.
They're my secretaries and they leave it at night at homes where the householders are out working.
It really makes you happy because you know it makes others happy.
I left a letter that Sabina had written with an unmarried couple. They made arrangements right
away to please Jehovah and were legally married. Jehovah has been so kind to me. You know,
when your handicapped and someone helps you or you're an older person and you get the necessary
help, that really changes your life in an incredible way. I would not put it some people think they
have to go and encourage her. But when they get there, the opposite happens. She's the one that
encourages them. Do not be afraid for I am with you. Do not gaze about for I am your God.
I will fortify you. I will really help you. I will really keep fast hold of you with my right
hand of righteousness. Sister Sabina Hernandez has been approved this month as an auxiliary pioneer.
Because if Sabina can do it, all the rest of us can too. Sabina appreciates the loving
assistance from her family and congregation. But as we saw, she's not content to let her
limitations stop her from doing what she can. She's able to search for spiritual treasures and take
what she learns to people in her ministry. After 30 years in the truth, her determined example
motivated her own brother to study the Bible and get baptized. After receiving her motorized
cart, one of Sabina's new joys was to approach brothers and sisters and greet them as assemblies
and conventions. You and I can look forward to that same joy the next time we're able to attend
a convention. But until then, we can take a look back through our music video Joy of Conventions.
It's packed with beautiful scenes from our 2014 Keep Seeking First God's Kingdom International
Conventions. What a beautiful video and song that shows the two-fold joy we experience at our
conventions. We feel the unity and love of our worldwide brotherhood. And we're happy to be
feeding undistracted for several days at Jehovah's Spiritual Table. Thinking back to the 2014
conventions, many of you have been asking for access to the video clips that were shown during
that program. I am pleased to announce that they are now available on the video on the man's
section of JW Broadcasting. You will find these listed under the programs and events category.
We hope you've enjoyed this month's program and its focus on how to treasure the spiritual food
that Jehovah provides so abundantly. We conclude our program by taking a visit to Madagascar.
This large beautiful island off the east coast of Africa is home to thousands of plant and
animal species found nowhere else on earth. It's sometimes called the big red island because of
its red soil. But our brothers and sisters there are cultivating Madagascar's spiritual soil
and finding the fields ripe for harvesting. The nearly 30,000 publishers preach zealously and
enjoy a 7% increase in 2014. But this is not without challenges. In remote areas, many of our brothers
walk long distances to the meetings and in the ministry. This dear sister paddles across a river
to attend her meetings. Because of the steady growth in Madagascar, there's a need for more kingdom
halls. So our brothers cherish the dignified halls that they do have to gather and worship together.
They send us their Christian love and greetings and we pray for them to keep enduring with joy
along with our brotherhood around the world. Thank you for joining us. From Brooklyn, New York,
this is JW Broadcasting.